On the north side of Bear Mountain, I want to create an interesting dynamic memorial just a bit off the AT in honor of my mother Ann.


I want to include a substantial amount of text about myself and my mother that I will make an initial part of the memorial.

This is that effort.  I just want to start writing below.

Ann Staples Kennedy was born on May 19th, 1942 in Minnesota.  She had two (much older) siblings, Sandy (Alan), and Susie who she always looked up to.  Her parents Alan and Mary told her directly that they had always intended on having only two children.  

On a Thursday morning in the middle of April, 2009, as she was riding as a passenger in a friend's car, the driver lost control and veered into oncoming traffic and she was killed.

Much of my story about my mother is also about me.  Despite being a middle aged man with a family of my own, my mother's death hit me extremely hard.  To the point that I ended up literally losing my mind.  Though Lyme disease may have also been a contributing factor to some of my mental breakage.

Without my mother to listen to me rant (and do her best to answer my anguished questions) I was completely lost.  So much more especially because there were all of a sudden so many new confusing questions.

My grief built instead of subsiding.  By the middle of that summer, I was headed off the rails, and the descent continued into the fall, culminating with a full-blown psychotic break that teetered far too close to a much greater disaster for me.  In the end, other than three people who worked for Sharon Hospital, I didn't hurt anyone.  I was trying to escape what I believed was an attempt to kill me with the MRI machine, running through the dreary rainy streets of Sharon.  To this day, I feel awful about those three people I hurt (I have a very clear memory of knocking one of them over as I bolted through the emergency doors), and ever since I've had a rather different understanding of so many things.  Mental illness, depression, suicide, grief, etc...  We are all probably a little bit more fragile than we might perhaps believe.  It was certainly the case for me.

But my intention to create a monument/memorial here at this spot has its roots in that madness.  For as I went crazy, I realized just how crazy the world that we live in actually is.  And just how counterproductive so many of our societal patterns, behavior and ways of measuring, creating and dissecting value actually are.



Names  ASK

Value  money is nothing more than a placeholder -- different "scales" of satisfaction produce different motivations in people