Recently I've been pondering communication a lot.  I think what needs
to happen is that we need to "collectively" figure out how to minimize
oppositionalism.  I believe that as humans, it is our natural
tendency to "oppose".  For the most part we've learned how to
override some of our other tendencies (to oppress/enslave), so perhaps
there's hope that we can learn how to communicate in a more tolerant  
open-minded way.  Key to this is understanding that it is possible for
two completely opposing viewpoints to both be completely valid/true.



So here on November 1st, I think I may have figured most of "it" out.

Most of us humans who live within society are trying to optimize our
ability to earn (or keep) money while also attempting to get the best
possible value when we do spend it.

Status is important to us.  Because it's in our "nature" to use status
as a rubrick when considering sexual coupling (and because this is a 
need that is directly tied to reproduction).  So we will always be 
subject to the opinions of others (and we'll take our lead from those
people we admire).

The thing is, at some point, these two issues have become conflated.  
We view 'how many other people does this one person "control"?' as a
valid question in terms of evaluating how much "status" the person 
has.  And this is where the problem lies.  There is very little 
rationality here.  Rather, it's about attempting to reduce risk.

I am a manager, and I "supervise" people as part of my job (and this
is explicitly what I get paid for).  But the best way to get these 
people who "report to me" to do the best possible job for the school
we all work for is not to "direct" them (despite that word existing
in my official job title), but rather to support, encourage and 
engage them.  Being directed or controlled is an explicit sign of 
a lack (or perhaps even total absence) of trust.  

I want to work towards a society where "work" is done by people
who enjoy what they are doing and are happy with their effort.  We 
can have that if we're willing to give up the control.  

Explaining the goal is perhaps the most important thing.  If 
everyone knows exactly what is trying to be accomplished, then within
the constraints of safety and expense, great freedom should be given
those who are tasked with carrying out the actual "work" as they may 
often find creative ways to gain efficiency (or other possible
advantages).