We are deceivers.  Fundamentally.  We're just not always that good at it.  But the act of deception is inherent in most human beings (certainly all the ones I've ever gotten to know).

On one dimension there's sexuality.  Here, we eagerly allow ourselves to be deceived (I certainly do), though many of us try to put limits on deception with respect to sexual coupling.  In some sense, I think that deception here serves a useful purpose (as long as it keeps fertile individuals coupling with each other) evolutionarily.  But it can also be a lightning rod for emotional obsession and all sorts of other dysfunction.  When confronted with a potential mate, we often wish to instinctively hide evidence of previous poor behavior, and we are also capable of building an edifice of "self-worth" internally (often involving self-deception) in order to project the confidence that is necessary to woo a partner with valuable attributes of her/his own.

When groups of people use deception, this becomes a reason for outsiders (and potentially members of the group too, if they're aware of it) to hate or attack a group.  So by definition, any truly valuable group should seek to avoid deception of any kind (as I believe any (healthy) individual should also try to avoid deception (especially self-deception) whenever we realize that it may be present).

Which brings up a good point (and another "instinct").  We humans choose to minimize our shortcomings.  We don't generally put them on display for others.  This means we actively deceive when we are injured (even if it's painful, my instinct is to *not* limp when my leg, foot or knee is sore).  To me, this seems to be an instance of posturing.  

Anyone who has learned to live outside societal standards of behavior (but still interacts with society) usually develops a sophisticated deception of one sort or another (perhaps multiple).

Trust is a secondary characteristic that is related to deception.  But it really is mostly about our belief (we trust those people we believe would not be intentionally deceiving us -- they may be misled themselves (but if that's the case, we may still trust them to not intentionally deceive us) and in fact they may be intentionally deceiving us in a way that succeeds (in which case we might still continue to (wrongly) trust them)).  We can place trust in individuals and/or groups.  I think that trusting a group not to intentionally deceive is possible (within a rational framework) even if it's very tough to figure out how I would build such a protocol/framework to try to evaluate trust.