With only a shallow gaze, the standard loop handle at one end and the metal clip at the other end of my dog's leash seem different enough.   But I've been pondering for a while exactly who is walking whom.  I've never embraced the fancy "reel" leashes that have a pushbutton or something that disengages a brake so that the dog can go quite some distance from the owner and still be connected.  I like the simplicity (and directness) of the standard fixed length strap.

I moved from an urban environment to a rural one at age 5 (and didn't own dogs prior anyhow).  And I was lucky enough that there was never any need to try to put a leash on the dogs I grew up with in normal day-to-day life on the farm(s).  Except for training which was pretty erratic (but did teach me a little).

But now I live right in town on a busy road.  And so a leash is an absolute requirement.  I still try to use it as little as possible; it's only a couple hundred feet of sidewalk before I can get to a secluded bike path where it's fine to unclip my hound.

The leash seems to be a mechanism of control, as it's in my hand and around her neck.  But really, she controls me as much as I control her.  And for this I am thankful.  Twice a day she pulls me outdoors.  It's frustrating that I didn't have the resolution to do this on my own (in the few years I was dogless in my life), but it doesn't matter that much as long as I have a canine companion.

Because my particular leash is made of ultrastrong synthetic webbing, the similarity to seatbelts is one I was unable to miss.  I personally see the potential for life-saving as roughly equivalent.

I owe a big debt of gratitude to my friends and family for encouraging me to get another dog (when I really really needed it).  I owe another huge debt of gratitude to many of the same people, but most especially my father and my good friend Tom, for helping me to understand how important it is to *always* clip in whenever there's any possibility of traffic.  I have never even had a close call of any sort in the past when I was reckless with this (and walked my young dog off-leash despite vehicles rushing past us).  But I will not push my, no *our*, luck.

This time around, I chose to try to be as undominant as possible.  Being ok with following (as she obviously wants to lead).  And the habit of biking with her (where I don't mind letting her "pull" me gently down the hill) has led to a bit more tugging than I would prefer.  But it's my fault not hers, so I mostly put up with it.

Off-leash, our relationship is much better; she listens and while coming when called is a bit of a challenge, I can almost always get her to sit and wait for me to walk towards her (unless she's hundreds of yards away, or hot on the trail of some real or imagined prey).  She knows I'm going to put the leash on her.  The unwillingness to return to me (forcing me to come to her) is (at least in my imagination) her way of protesting slightly.

Both ends of the leash have loops.  "My" end seems a lot simpler.  Hers assumes she's already wearing a collar.  Which of course is another loop.  Two actually: one to go around her neck and the other for explictly connecting to a leash.

Having now pondered the question of "wise restraints which make humans free" for well over 3 decades, I'd have to say that the leash that connects me to my dog (and by doing so helps to *ground* me), is a most excellent example.