principles to gather my self and others around


We love and respect this planet.  We believe that much of the value of the current planet is contained in interactions between various components which are inherently dynamic and more complex than our current understanding.


We believe in the usefulness of the scientific method (though we acknowledge there may be significant improvements in the scientific methods used in the future) as a way of helping to direct our action.

We believe that humankind may be exerting undue pressure on many planetary subsystems (ecosystems and otherwise) due to our somewhat large numbers, as well as our technology the "footprint" of our collective existences.

We think that it's possible to eventually change the behavior of enough of humankind so as to preserve many currently existing "natural" systems.   We believe this will be a tough challenge, and that in order to succeed, most probably new ways of thinking and coming together (as large communities of humans) will need to be explored and developed.

Inclusivity and tolerance are paramount.  We must look at education and open dialogue as fundamental.  When others seek to define themselves as our enemies (or enemies of our principles), we must give them whatever merit their behavior (and treatment of us) merits.  If their opposition is idealogical (and has no associated threat of violence or aggression) then we should treat them as full partners.  Those who seek to use coercion against us (or our principles) may not deserve our full respect (and so ceasing a dialogue may be appropriate in circumstances similar to these), but there is a basic level of respect that we should always seek to provide to everyone we deal with, except those who have shown themselves to be completely irredeemable ater decades of attempted rehabilitation and education.

We do not believe new technologies will always be the correct answer to any problem or question.  We believe careful forethought about which technologies that we choose to develop and how we exactly develop them (and to what extent) is of the utmost importance.

We believe in openness and transparency, but within limits.  Those limits should all be about reasonable individual expectations of privacy, and it is expected that those limits may change over time as we better understand our human/animal instinct for secret keeping.  

We believe in working across boundaries of all types, including national, gender, race, religion, sexual preference, orientation & self-image.  There is one planet.  We are one human species. All other designations are more or less ephemeral.

We explicitly respect those humans working towards living off-planet.  We believe that sharing technology and ideas (and perhaps more) with those in pursuit of that goal can only benefit both earth and the adventurers who want to leave.

We believe that in order for us to fully express our humanity that it is important to give other humans the right to posture in any way they see fit (with the limits being our principles, and rejecting *behavior* (not posturing necessarily) that is coercive via means other than open dialogue)

Education and rehabilitation is a phrase that has overtones of indoctrination and/or groupthink.  But these are not explicitly a part of education the way we understand it.  The idea is to help everyone to be able to think for themselves.  To give them tools with which they can make their own analysis (or perhaps build their own meta-tools instead) and allow them to be fully human.  We are all governed to some extent by the same human emotions and instincts.  Most of these are fairly well understood at this point in time.  The trick is how to change our actual behavior.  We believe that open dialogue is the perfect solution to this problem.  Open as in everyone can participate.  And also open as in each participant must come to the conversation with an honest attempt to hear and process the expressions of others, and not just a desire to share her/his own point of view.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the meta information

I, Charles King Derr, who has in the past used the aliases Ernst Doubt, 
Sherlock Costello, and dort(munder) (among others), set out to create 
this document beginning mid-July of 2013.  This is not meant to be universal in any 
way.  Rather I see it as a way to potentially bring together like-minded 
folk around the issues of environmental and planetary health.  It seems 
possible to me that 

Initially (as I compose this right now), I have not shared this writing 
with anyone, so it's perhaps somewhat disingenuous of me to use the word 
"we" instead of "I", but I do have hope that among the several billion other 
people on the planet, there will be at least one who finds nothing 
objectionable in these principles.  

Inclusivity and tolerance are paramount first-order concerns for me. 

One main goal is to structure these principles so as to invite those who may 
disagree into a dialogue.  Perhaps I've got some of the above wrong.  I see 
the participation of those who may disagree with me as the best way
