How many dimensions of "urges" do we experience as humans?

  Competition
  Sexuality
  Hoarding
  Claiming our own space

There's obviously overlap.  But I think that most of the
problems we currently see in society can directly be 
traced to one or more of the above causes.

I'm not ready yet to deal with each of the above items
on a case-by-case basis (and perhaps that will never be
the correct solution).  But I do see some possible 
answers.

  Scale

That's also an "emergent" issue (though perhaps there's
a direct "drive" involved here as well).  But to my way
of thinking, this is perhaps where we can truly 
understand how to do better.  

We evolved in small tribes, where "small" is defined as 
an order of magnitude (let's say: less than 1000).

We can choose to ask the question (of anyone):
  How many people are you truly close to?

   For some, the answer may be 'zero'. 
   Perhaps there may be people who have
   a true partner (and nobody else) who
   will answer 'one'.

   I believe that as this number gets 
   larger, the more likely it is that the 
   person will feel comfortable (and therefore
   not be acting and reacting with fear).


We are scared of that which is beyond our control. 
Almost everything is beyond our control though. In 
some sense there's really no other answer than to
believe in and trust the society(ies) we live in.

How can we accomplish this?  

  Tolerance
  Fewer rules

If the "rules" that we live by are generated
and maintained internally in each of us (rather 
than being enforced externally through LE, the
military or some other "forceful" control), 
then we'll obviously be much better off.



Two dimensions at once:

 1.  From constraints comes so much, so focusing on the nature of our
 rules, lawes, mores, their interplay (and rates of adoption under
 various variables) are all important.

 2.  Ben's human "screwiness" plus the focus on "scaling up" the
 tribal size (to planetary/universal populations from the 300-500
 number that might have prevailed in primitive human cultural mileiu)


How to balance the need for education and tolerance with the goal of
security and minimizing (or at least reducing) risks?