Nature
Quantum
Information
Water
Transportation
Energy
Computation
Complexity
Environment
Agriculture
Cooperation
Tolerance


A bunch of interlocking memes here.

Really a very complex system.  Only possible to model as an
interconnected web of complex subsystems.

In any case, I make the decision to move forward with principles (try
to rigorously define my most important principles: see [1]) and to allow my
goals to emerge out of how I choose to specifically embrace my own
principles.

Education and Communication are powerful tools.  Let us use them.

Specifically, let us begin to think deeply and as completely as
possible about how we play, watch and especially "cheer for" games (of
sport, and all others) in our societies.

Finding ways to play games (and even create other "non-game"
collaborative activities) which teach the players (and any observers)
the right lessons will be a huge step towards educating our next
generation.  And of course when they recreate their own interactive
opportunities (and even newer games), the potential for significant
progress over the course of generations is huge.

Money has proved a useful tool to humans and our civilizations as
we've built societies.  It has extended the reach of trade and barter
significantly.  But along the way, we've become far too attached to
our "yardstick."  Many of us have come to believe that monetary price
is a true measure of value and/or intrinsic worth.  Far more
importantly, our human tendency towards status seeking has
internalized "wealth" as a natural measure of status.  It seems
obvious to me that true status would be far better tied directly to
how one lives one's life and what one accomplishes with the resources
one has available rather than the amount (and kind) of resources an
individual is able to accumulate and/or control.  Finding a way to
collectively value things that are truly useful (and not just being
attracted to high-priced items because of their high price) is (in my
opinion) an incredibly important step that would benefit us all.

As humans, we have a natural urge to want to control our environment.
This is not a bad thing by itself.  But pursuing this goal blindly
with a single-minded focus is counterproductive.  Because the
environment that has produced us is a complex ecosystem of
interrelations that we do not yet (and may perhaps never) fully
understand.  Allowing for the truth that there will always be some
aspects of reality which we are not able to fully control is a very
important admission.

Control and economics intersect in interesting ways.  Another way that
we humans currently evaluate status is by the measure of "how many
persons one controls."  Commonly we call that form of control
"employment".  And so as a result, most of us without enough "extra"
resources willingly give up (at least partial) control over ourselves
in order to earn resources from another person (or institution) that
has a need for our skills, efforts, and/or thinking.

I personally hope to accomplish a lot in what remains of my life here
on this planet.  But I do not wish to do it by controlling others.  I
wold much rather do it by collaborating with other like-minded folks
who share my goals.

Our current economic systems do not exist because they are the best
and most efficient allocations of resources.  Rather, they exist
because those individuals and institutions who have managed to
accumulate wealth have continuously rewritten the rules of society (in
order to preserve their advantage and perpetuate the system for the
benefit of their progeny).

How we decide to create societal constraints is the key.  Our urge to
procreate is a strong and deep one.  The reality that educated parents
usually have fewer children than uneducated parents is a wonderful
thing.  Technology is advancing at such a great pace right now that
food, health, shelter and comfort no longer cost as much as they used
to in human terms.  Centuries ago, the only way to live in true luxury
was to pay servants (or keep slaves) who would attend to unpleasant
details.  Now it is possible to live quite comfortably without needing
other individuals to remain at one's beck and call.  Shouldn't we be
working towards a world in which we all try to help educate each other
and work together collaboratively?

Our urge to compete is also a very deep one.  Which is why I began by
urging that we create better games.  Games that encourage
collaboration (but still retain a competitive aspect to attract our
interest) are capable of better directing that competitive urge
towards usefulness (and away from confrontation, aggression and
violence).  Recognizing that there are real problems we face (such as
overpopulation) and finding ways to collectively compete "against
those problems" instead of against each other could be a real
game-changer (pun intended).

Doing our best to provide educational opportunities for all (but
especially for all children, as they're the best learners) is an
answer that hold promise for me, because it seems likely that success
here will greatly assist with the problem of exploding human
population.

Let's teach each other to strive for what really matters, avoiding
the false illusion of chasing after what others may choose simply
because of our perception of "status" value.

Here is a very short list of folks that I believe are attempting to
accomplish things that I agree are important:

TZM       http://thezeitgeistmovement.com/mission-statement
Wave      http://wavism.net
OPOW      http://www.onepeopleoneworld.net/
ZS        http://zerostate.net
LessWrong http://lesswrong.com/

Anyone want to join us and help change the world?

[1] https://github.com/edoubt/cruft/blob/master/writing/mine/structure/s0