As I hit a (hopefully slight?) patch of writer's block it occurs to me
that perhaps I'm writing (and thinking) these thoughts mainly for my
own benefit.  At the moment, I'm very much in the thick of control and
domination.  Maybe this is an exercise about giving myself permission
to participate in (hopefully somewhat limited) control and domination
(of the people in our society).  I still hold an allure for anarchy,
but I'm trying to decide if that's a naive (and impractical)
viewpoint.  With so many of us humans on the planet, there really
*has* to be a framework that constrains our individual actions
somewhat.  And, yeah, most of the limits can be set internally by all
of us individual humans, but the statistical reality (that there are
billions of us) means that there ultimately need to be restraints set
as a group (and imposed on most of us by others).  I'm not sure how
useful to others any of these thoughts are, so I think I want to try
to keep moving in the direction I've been trying to go and write more
about games.  That's after all where much of my development of ideas
like constraints, boundaries, rules, laws, etc... has come out of.  I
guess I need to try to figure out how to address that issue (rather
than getting hung up on it as I currently am).

Didn't realize that I'd already started on this.  It's been close to a
year since Ben gave me the invitation to contribute a chapter to his
book.  It's so strange to me just how much I write daily and yet how
hard it is to craft a piece worthy of being included in a book.  I
thought I was going to find myself typing in an empty file today, but
reading the above paragraph is somewhat distracting.

So the real issue is that I just don't know what I want to say.  Or
perhaps that should be phrased differently: I don't have enough
confidence in *anything* and so I'm getting stuck with just not being
sure enough about any of my ideas to want to "commit" to it/them.

I guess I want there to be more to my chapter than my thoughts about
games.  Somehow working these meta issues into the prose would seem
(right now) to be an improvement.

