So a few weeks ago, Obama was asked about this new Pope, and he
mentioned that pretty much all religions have some version of the
golden rule.  This made me think a lot about the golden rule.  My
first conclusion is how "unnatural" it is.  In the sense that if one
is truly optimizing for onesself, it makes a lot more sense to cheat
and kill other people when the opportunity arises (there's less risk
with that route anyhow).  But of course society mitigates against
this.  Perhaps this is society's ultimate goal: to promote
cooperation.

I've recently realized (through a more thorough form of introspection
than I'd previously engaged in) that I personally don't treat others
the way I'd like to be treated.  Instead I often react emotionally and
"lash out" with my posture and/or words when I get upset, afraid,
arrogant, (or into any number of other states).  But over time I've
tried to learn how best to avoid such behavior.  And one of the best
tools is the other people I interact with.  Especially when someone
meets my own inadequacy with gentle kindness of their own, it tends to
affect me deeply.  It makes me want to do better.

In some sense my own pattern seems to be related to communication as a
primal expression.  My inadequate filter means that I tend to
overshare.  In moments of duress, my need to communicate can gain a
"momentum" which, when unrelieved, can build quickly past the point
where I retain conscious control of my reactions.

But that's really beside the point I set out to make as I started
writing here.  I wanted to really examine my own self and how I view
myself fitting into the world.  Certainly things have changed
drastically in my lifetime.  Now that there are 7 billion people on
the planet, what I really need to evaluate is whether I'm consuming
more than "my share" of the energy and other resources available to
the residents of earth.  And of course when I do so, I find that my
own lifestyle doesn't appear to correctly scale (were it to be
multiplied by 7 billion).  What the other 6,999,999 people are doing
is mostly irrelevant to me (unless they continue to breed faster than
they die, in which case it will change my math slightly).  But I'm not
willing to trade some of what I enjoy (with my status as a rich first
worlder) because I have family scattered over great distances and I
will always wish to travel to them (and encourage them to travel to
me).  I don't expect that will change.  Working closer to (or
at/from?) home than I currently do would be a good improvement to make
as well.  But I don't wish to limit myself as far as future employment
opportunities with respect to travel distance or time, so I'm not
willing to fully commit to change there either (though I'm willing to
try if I can).  Mostly I'm guilty about my love for long hot showers
though.  While I feel guilty about the energy expended to heat the
water, I'm usually unwilling to curtail my time spent enjoying it.

And more importantly (I think) what about land utilization?  Currently
I "own" (along with my wife and some bank) a house on a very small lot
(~1/2 acre).  It doesn't feel like "enough" to me (almost certainly
because I was spoiled with a childhood spent (after age 5 when my
parents left NYC) with few neighbors and seemingly "infinite"
wilderness surrounding me in upstate NY), but it's more than many
others have.

I guess my goal would be to have access to "shared" resources (land)
that I could eventually build on (whether a home or other structure
that is more "communal").

But how much of this is rationalization?  If I were incredibly wealthy
and able to purchase a huge tract of land, how would that change my
thinking?