principles to gather my self and others around


We love and respect this planet.  We believe that much of the value of
the current planet is contained in interactions between various
components which are inherently dynamic and more complex than our
current knowledge allows us to understand.  This planet is not simply
a collection of resources that are here for humanity to consume and
exploit without any restraint.  If we continue to treat it that way,
we believe the danger (to humanity as well as the planet itself) is
potentially large.

We believe in the usefulness of the scientific method (though we
acknowledge there may be significant improvements in the scientific
methods used in the future) as a way of helping to direct our action.

We believe that humankind may be exerting undue pressure on many
planetary subsystems (ecosystems and otherwise) due to our somewhat
large numbers, as well as our technology, and the "footprint" of our
collective existences.

We think that it's possible to eventually change the behavior of
enough of humankind so as to preserve many currently existing
"natural" systems.  We believe this will be a tough challenge, and
that in order to succeed, most probably new ways of thinking and
coming together (as large communities of humans) will need to be
explored and developed.

Inclusivity and tolerance are paramount.  We must look at education
and open dialogue as fundamental.  When others seek to define
themselves as our enemies (or enemies of our principles), we must give
them whatever trust and respect their behavior (and treatment of us)
merits.  If their opposition is idealogical (and has no associated
threat of violence or aggression) then we should treat them as full
partners.  Those who seek to use coercion against us (or our
principles) may not deserve our full respect (and so ceasing a
dialogue may be appropriate in circumstances similar to these), but
there is a basic level of respect that we should always seek to
provide to everyone we deal with.  The exception is those who have
transgressed the bounds of societally acceptable behavior (again,
these specific "rules" should be expected to change with our societies
in the future as they have in the past).  We believe that
innappropriate violence and aggressive coercion are behaviors that do
not merit respect (and in fact may instead demand a punitive
restraining reaction from us).

We do not believe new technologies will always be the correct answer
to any problem or question.  We believe careful forethought about
which technologies that we choose to develop and how we exactly
develop them (and to what extent) is of the utmost importance.

We believe in openness and transparency, but within limits.  Those
limits should all be about reasonable individual expectations of
privacy, and it is expected that those limits may change over time as
we better understand our human/animal instinct for secret keeping.

We believe in working across boundaries of all types, including
national/state borders, and individual differences such as gender,
race, religion, sexual preference, orientation & self-image.  There is
one planet here.  We are one human species. All other designations are
more or less ephemeral.

We explicitly respect those humans working towards living off-planet.
We believe that sharing technology and ideas (and perhaps more) with
those in pursuit of that goal can only benefit both earth and the
adventurers who want to leave.

We believe that in order for us to fully express our humanity that it
is important to give other humans the right to posture in any way they
see fit (with the limits being our principles, and rejecting
*behavior* (not posturing necessarily) that is coercive via means
other than open dialogue).

We believe in the inherent value of the natural world as perhaps the
best possible educational tool that could ever exist.  We believe that
introducing people of all ages, but especially young children to the
raw beauty and power of nature is inherently benficial.

Education and rehabilitation is a phrase that has overtones of
indoctrination and/or groupthink.  But these are not explicitly a part
of education the way we understand it.  The idea is to help everyone
to be able to think for themselves.  To give them tools with which
they can make their own analysis (or perhaps build their own
meta-tools instead) and allow them to be fully human.  We are all
governed to some extent by the same human emotions and instincts.
Most of these are fairly well understood at this point in time.  The
trick is how to change our actual behavior.  We believe that open
dialogue is the perfect solution to this problem.  Open as in everyone
can participate.  And also open as in each participant must come to
the conversation with an honest attempt to hear and process the
expressions of others, and not just a desire to share her/his own
point of view.

We understand that some of the answers to some of the questions we may
ask will probably lead us to the conclusion that substantial changes
in our lifestyles, ways of interacting with others, and perhaps even
our value systems is meritted.  We know that changing our patterns of
behavior is hard, but we agree to make the attempt for the sake of
trying to give future generations of humans as many options as
possible.

We emphasize that agreement with all of the principles expressed in
this document is *not* required, demanded, nor even requested.  We
will gladly work closely with, and alongside people who may disagree
with some or all of these principles as full partners as long as
she/he/they is/are willing to engage in open constructive dialogue
with us.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
the meta information

I, Charles King Derr, in the past having used the aliases Ernst Doubt,
Sherlock Costello, and dort(munder) (among others), set out to create
this document beginning mid-July of 2013.  This is not meant to be
universal in any way.  Rather I see it as a way to potentially bring
together like-minded folk around the issues of environmental and
planetary health.  It seems possible to me that similar documents
might be created around other specific important issues.  Perhaps one
day I'll try to do that with a different issue I care deeply about.

Initially (as I compose this right now), I have not shared this
writing with anyone, so it's perhaps somewhat disingenuous of me to
use the word "we" instead of "I", but I do have hope that among the
several billion other people on the planet, there will be at least one
who finds nothing objectionable in these principles.  So it's a
hopeful "we", not an intentionally deceptive use of that pronoun.

Inclusivity and tolerance are paramount first-order concerns for me. 

Those who wish to see how this document initially came together 
(and then how it evolved and changed) can check
https://github.com/edoubt/cruft/blob/master/writing/mine/nature 
(at least as long as github is in existence).

One main goal is to structure these principles so as to invite those
who may disagree into a dialogue.  Perhaps I've got some of the above
wrong.  I see the participation of those who may disagree with me as
the best way to potentially correct any problems.
