an attempt to iterate over principles few could quibble with (though almost certainly not all will adopt either):



We seek to live in harmony with other people and the natural world.

We understand that humans are social beings and we support the efforts
of anyone attempting to connect individuals in any non-coercive way.

Inclusivity and tolerance are paramount.  We must look at education
and open dialogue as fundamental.  When others seek to define
themselves as our enemies (or enemies of our principles), we must give
them whatever trust and respect their behavior (and treatment of us)
merits.  If their opposition is idealogical (and has no associated
threat of violence or aggression) then we should treat them as full
partners.  Those who seek to use coercion against us (or our
principles) may not deserve our full respect (and so ceasing a
dialogue may be appropriate in circumstances similar to these), but
there is a basic level of respect that we should always seek to
provide to everyone we deal with.  The exception is those who have
transgressed the bounds of societally acceptable behavior (again,
these specific "rules" should be expected to change with our societies
in the future as they have in the past).  We believe that
innappropriate violence and aggressive coercion are behaviors that do
not merit respect (and in fact may instead demand a punitive
restraining reaction from us).

We understand that personal freedom is essential (but not unlimited).

We believe that tolerance is essential, but only within limits.
Society's boundaries may not be perfect, but ever person is entitled
to build her own choice of what she chooses to tolerate.  And we
should strive to express our intolerance with posture rather than
action (unless the offense is truly aggregious (i.e. definitively
violent in nature)).

We believe that conflict should be addressed with non-violent
dialogue; the more the better. Try to get everyone talking to everyone
else.

Violence should be a tool of absolutely last resort.  

We understand that we have emotional urges as a result of human
evolution in the tribal hunter-gatherer past of our ancestors.  As
emotional urges, we understand that there is "naturally" no limit to
the feelings we may experience due to these urges (and either giving
in to them or suppressing/diverting them), so we will attempt to use
rational analysis to help us learn to manage such urges, with the
understanding that "bounding" them is our goal. We will work hard to
override the negative urges and collectively use societal standards
(and the support of our close friends/family if available) as a
support network to help us all achieve this goal.

We understand that there may come a time when society (or a smaller
group, perhaps even a single individual) will act in a coercive and/or
restrictive way towards individuals who are working against the best
interests of human society.

We understand that humans inherently have the capacity (perhaps even
tendency?) to be deceptive.  Nevertheless we will strive to avoid
deception and we will point it out where we can identify it in others,
hopefully in a fashion that can be heard and understood by the
offender(s).

We understand that the structures of society and community ultimately
trump state and tribe.  Which is to say that the standards, habits and
lifestyle of the people who live in a particular area define that
locale as much as a national/state/provincial/whatever boundary does.

We understand that specifically our tribal background (and evolution
in general) has given humans a strong drive to compete against each
other and even to hate outsiders (members of other tribes).  We aim 
to carefully fashion the groups we gather together in in a way that
attempts to never define a non-member negatively.

We believe in the usefulness of the scientific method (though we
acknowledge there may be significant improvements in the scientific
methods used in the future) as a way of helping to direct our action.

We do not believe new technologies will always be the correct answer
to any problem or question.  We believe careful forethought about
which technologies that we choose to develop and how we exactly
develop them (and to what extent) is of the utmost importance.

We believe in openness and transparency, but within limits.  Those
limits should all be about reasonable individual expectations of
privacy, and it is expected that those limits may change over time as
we better understand our human/animal instinct for secret keeping.

We believe in working across boundaries of all types, including
national/state borders, and individual differences such as gender,
race, religion, sexual preference, orientation & self-image.  There is
one planet here.  We are one human species. All other designations are
more or less ephemeral.

We believe that in order for us to fully express our humanity that it
is important to give other humans the right to posture in any way they
see fit (with the limits being our principles, and rejecting
*behavior* (not posturing necessarily) that is coercive via means
other than open dialogue).

Education and rehabilitation is a phrase that has overtones of
indoctrination and/or groupthink.  But these are not explicitly a part
of education the way we understand it.  The idea is to help everyone
to be able to think for themselves.  To give them tools with which
they can make their own analysis (or perhaps build their own
meta-tools instead) and allow them to be fully human.  We are all
governed to some extent by the same human emotions and instincts.
Most of these are fairly well understood at this point in time.  The
trick is how to change our actual behavior.  We believe that open
dialogue is the perfect solution to this problem.  Open as in everyone
can participate.  And also open as in each participant must come to
the conversation with an honest attempt to hear and process the
expressions of others, and not just a desire to share her/his own
point of view.

We emphasize that agreement with all of the principles expressed in
this document is *not* required, demanded, nor even requested.  We
will gladly work closely with, and alongside people who may disagree
with some or all of these principles as full partners as long as
she/he/they is/are willing to engage in open constructive dialogue
with us.

