I've been frustrated by the capitalist economy because of the
false (and intentionally misleading) equivalence of "cost" and
"value".  In monetary terms it's always struck me that the 
varying costs of different things have very little to do with 
their actual true value.  And worse, in many cases, there are
hidden costs (having to do with pollution in manufacturing 
processes or use for instance) that don't show up in how much
we pay for things.

When we wish to give someone a gift, we have an option to 
truly evaluate all aspects of that gift.  There are many ways 
to give gifts, and gifts come in a myriad of different types.
I believe it's possible to bring some rigor to this analysis 
and see if there's a way to try to build a more relevant model
of value by breaking things down and comparing (admittedly 
using my own personal subjective viewpoint) gifts to each 
other.

At this point, I'd like to explicitly take two common 
transactions off the table and (by fiat) define them as *not*
gifts.  The first is paid employment.  The 2nd is anything
purchased at an agreed upon price.  In both cases, there may
be exceptional circumstances (some organizations have 
volunteers who work just as hard as (if not harder than) paid
staff -- and there are probably many cases where the
negotiation of price is tilted far to one side or the other 
because either the buyer or the seller wants to essentially
give a gift) but for the purposes of trying to limit scope 
(at least a little bit) I'm going to exclude those things.  
The one exception is that I'd like to put loans back on the 
table (certainly one can make the argument that a loan is 
something purchased at an agreed upon price) because I think
that there is something inherently giftlike about a loan.

In some ways this is an elitist endeavor, as in order to give
a gift, one has to have a certain amount of disposable income
(or at the very least some extra time).  But recent events 
(especially the occupy movement(s)) have caused me to think 
that there are an awful lot of people with an awful lot of 
disposable income (1% is still a huge number when looking 
at the population of the world).  And the rest of us in the 
99% also have the opportunity to make good choices about the 
gifts we give as well (even if we don't have as much time or 
money to spend on them).  In fact that's one of the central 
points I want to make.  Really good gifts don't always have
to cost a lot (sometimes they may cost nothing in terms of 
currency).