Obviously there's something weird about me being 47 years old and describing any thoughts I have now about freewill as "initial" but I had to pick a filename and that's what I came up with.


So recently I've had the thought that perhaps most humans don't truly exert freewill.

Only a select few do: those who shift humanity's course in some way.  Of course the trick is that "humanity" is a *very* complex system.  And so it's fairly tough to tell which way humanity was going to go *without* any particular human existing.  But I submit that people like Hannibal, Jesus, Mohammad, Newton, Neitsche, Napoleon, Einstein (and many more) have changed our collective "direction" to some extent and therefore had a non-trivial "effect" (which is at the heart of most attempted definitions of freewill).  It's interesting to notice that there are two ways to accomplish this, usually (but not always) mutually exclusive.  

 1.  Accomplish "real" deeds within one's lifetime (this almost always 
      requires extreme charisma (or some other lever to power over 
      contemporary citizenry)).  Examples: Hannibal, Napoleon, Ghengis 
      Khan, Hitler, etc...

 2.  Thinkers who propagate memes.  These folks may or may not be 
      widely recognized for their accomplishments within their own 
      lifetimes.  Examples: Plato, Newton, DesCartes, Einstein, 
      Feynman, etc...

 3.  Combinations (perhaps not as rare as I initially thought?) such
      as artists (who may or may not commit a meme to a "real" object)
      and explorers (who actually do something real, but the information
      that they've revealed (and shared with others) may not benefit
      humanity until much later on after their death.  I'm sure there 
      are all kinds of other examples of a mix of 1 & 2.

If one thinks of "long-lasting" as the ultimate measure, then 2 clearly has an advantage over 1 (perhaps Egyptian pyramid builders are an exception though?) in terms of being able to build on the ideas of others and really have a "permanent" effect on future humanity.

Why do I think in these terms?  Perhaps it's a deep-seated insecurity.  Or maybe my biological drive to seek status.  But I do find it important to think about "legacy" explicitly and I'm trying not to be ashamed of it.


Control over others is a specific sub-impact of freewill.  That is, it seems possible for someone to choose to exert freewill in such a way as to (at least partially) deny freewill to others (humans, animals, plants, bacteria, etc...).

In that our urge to control our environment is perhaps our single driving "force" it would be better not to limit it completely.  But thinking about how our actions affect others is a natural consequence of digging deeply into the semantics and possibilities surrounding the freewill concept.  So the way to proceed is to work with knowledge rather than supposition about future possibilities.  Which means that how much we know is very important.  And working within *existing* technologies and frameworks is the best way to proceed.  Rather than guessing about what we'll have in the future (and how soon we'll have it).



